pages/linux-tips.md, before:

---
title: Linux Tips
description: Tips and Tricks
published: true
categories:
    - Tech
type: pages
layout: pages
date: 2025-03-26T11:43:45.306Z
lastmod: 2025-04-12T09:20:50.861Z
tags:
    - Linux
    - References
    - Security
    - Tips
isdraft: true
fmContentType: pages
mermaid: false
preview: ""
keywords:
    - Linux
    - Tips
    - Tricks
    - Security
---

<!--- cSpell:ignore kexec listchanges poweroff groff -->
<!--- cSpell:disable --->
* [Man Page sections](#man-page-sections)
* [Termination Signals](#termination-signals)
* [Aliases](#aliases)
* [Running scripts at shutdown or reboot via SystemD](#running-scripts-at-shutdown-or-reboot-via-systemd)
* [Ubuntu and Debian Package Urgency](#ubuntu-and-debian-package-urgency)
  * [Using the urgency value](#using-the-urgency-value)
    * [apt-listchanges](#apt-listchanges)
    * [apt-show-versions](#apt-show-versions)
    * [apt-check](#apt-check)
* [Unattended Upgrade Options](#unattended-upgrade-options)
  * [Block a package](#block-a-package)
  * [SystemD Timers](#systemd-timers)
<!--- cSpell:enable --->

## Man Page sections

* [ ] Consider placement of this topic as its more of a reference.

1 - Executable programs or shell commands\
2 - System calls (functions provided by the kernel)\
3 - Library calls (functions within program libraries)\
4 - Special files (usually found in /dev)\
5 - File formats and conventions, e.g. /etc/passwd\
6 - Games\
7 - Miscellaneous (including macro packages and conventions), e.g., man(7), groff(7)\
8 - System administration commands (usually only for root)\
9 - Kernel routines [Non-standard]

Web based man pages:

* **<https://linux.die.net/man/>**
* <https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages/>
* <https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Man_page>

* <https://manpages.ubuntu.com/>
* <https://manpages.debian.org/>

See also [man pages in Linux Commands](linux-commands.md#man-pages)

## Termination Signals

* [ ] This seems like something for a Linux reference page. Consider (another) split

* **<https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/251195/difference-between-less-violent-kill-signal-hup-1-int-2-and-term-15>**
* <https://www.gnu.org/software/libc/manual/html_node/Termination-Signals.html>
* <https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/5642/what-if-kill-9-does-not-work> (this is not so much required reading but it is insightful)

SIGKILL: FORCE QUIT NO MATTER WHAT - CANNOT BE IGNORED\
SIGINT: <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd> in a terminal. "stop what you're doing right now and wait for further user input". Non-interactive programs usually treat it like SIGTERM\
SIGTERM: Normal Kill signal. "App exit cleanly"\
SIGHUP: SIGTERM but occurs when you disconnect from terminal. For daemons, this should mean "reload your configuration"\
SIGQUIT: harshest of the ignorable signals. App is misbehaving and should be killed now, also leave a core dump if configured. Apps can set a handler as something is pretty wrong.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
<details>
<summary>Click for full answer from <a href="https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/251195/difference-between-less-violent-kill-signal-hup-1-int-2-and-term-15">stack overflow</a>:</summary>

>
> SIGKILL never fails to kill a running process, that's the point. Other signals exist to give the application a chance to react.
>
> The default behavior of SIGINT, SIGTERM, SIGQUIT and SIGHUP is to kill the program. However applications are allowed to install a handler for these signals. So the actual behavior of applications when they receive these signals is a matter of convention (which each application may or may not follow), not of system design.
>
> SIGINT is the "weakest" of the lot. Its conventional meaning is "stop what you're doing right now and wait for further user input". It's the signal generated by <kbd><kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd></kbd> in a terminal. Non-interactive programs generally treat it like SIGTERM.
>
> SIGTERM is the "normal" kill signal. It tells the application to exit cleanly. The application might take time to save its state, to free resources such as temporary files that would otherwise stay behind, etc. An application that doesn't want to be interrupted during a critical application might ignore SIGTERM for a while.
>
> SIGHUP is about the same as SIGTERM in terms of harshness, but it has a specific role because it's automatically sent to applications running in a terminal when the user disconnects from that terminal (etymologically, because the user was connecting via a telephone line and the modem hung up). SIGHUP is often involuntary, unlike SIGTERM which has to be sent explicitly, so applications should try to save their state on a SIGHUP. SIGHUP also has a completely different conventional meaning for non-user-facing applications (daemons), which is to reload their configuration file.
>
> SIGQUIT is the harshest of the ignorable signals. It's meant to be used when an application is misbehaving and needs to be killed now, and by default it traditionally left a core dump file (modern systems where most users wouldn't know what a core file is tend to not produce them by default). Applications can set a handler but should do very little (in particular not save any state) because the intent of SIGQUIT is to be used when something is seriously wrong.
>
</details>
<!-- markdownlint-enable MD033 -->

## Aliases

**Aliases can be a double edged sword.**

When setting up aliases, consider that: If you add an option to a command as an alias, when you remote to a new system, it may not have that alias.\
\Consider the usefulness of a permanent alias vs the gain in muscle memory

## Running scripts at shutdown or reboot via SystemD

If you have seen a tip that suggests you put a script you want run at shutdown/reboot/poweroff/halt in `/lib/systemd/system-shutdown/` or `/usr/lib/systemd/system-shutdown/` and it doesn't work, there is a **big catch!**

From <https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/latest/systemd-halt.service.html>:

> *"Shortly before executing the actual system power-off/halt/reboot/kexec, systemd-shutdown will run all executables in `/usr/lib/systemd/system-shutdown/` and pass one arguments to them: either "poweroff", "halt", "reboot", or "kexec", depending on the chosen action. All executables in this directory are executed in parallel, and execution of the action is not continued before all executables finished. (A safety timeout of 90s is applied however.) Note that these executables are run <ins>after all services have been shut down, and after most mounts have been unmounted</ins> (the root file system as well as `/run/` and various API file systems are still around though). This means any programs dropped into this directory must be prepared to run in such a limited execution environment and not rely on external services or hierarchies such as `/var/` to be around (or writable)."*

This means if your script needs certain things it may fail.

Alternatives are:

* [systemd-soft-reboot.service](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/latest/systemd-soft-reboot.service.html) - I haven't looked into this, not sure how useful it is as it only reboots user-space.
* Create a SystemD Service to run your script at shutdown ([REF](https://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/questions/89732/run-a-script-at-shutdown-on-raspbian#:~:text=EDIT%3A%20If%20it%27s%20not%20working%20try%20this%20one%3A))

Based off: <https://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/questions/89732/run-a-script-at-shutdown-on-raspbian>

## Ubuntu and Debian Package Urgency

From <https://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-controlfields.html#urgency>:
<!--- <!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line MD033 -->
> This is a description of how important it is to upgrade to this version from previous ones. It consists of a single keyword taking one of the values `low`, `medium`, `high`, `emergency`, or `critical`<sup>12</sup> (not case-sensitive) followed by an optional commentary (separated by a space) which is usually in parentheses. For example:
>
> `Urgency: low (HIGH for users of diversions)`
>
> The value of this field is usually extracted from the `debian/changelog` file - see [Debian changelog: debian/changelog](https://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-source.html#s-dpkgchangelog).

From <https://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-controlfields.html#id27>:

> [12]
> Other urgency values are supported with configuration changes in the archive software but are not used in Debian. The urgency affects how quickly a package will be considered for inclusion into the `testing` distribution and gives an indication of the importance of any fixes included in the upload. `Emergency` and `critical` are treated as synonymous.

Ubuntu ref: <https://canonical-ubuntu-packaging-guide.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/reference/debian-dir-overview/>

**Question: Does the urgency value relate to the ubuntu security notice value?**

* [ ] consider text about urgency / cve matching

### Using the urgency value

* [ ] link in with nagios check_apt critical options and critical regex
* [ ] cover which of the above are included with ubuntu vs being 3rd party

#### apt-listchanges

From <https://askubuntu.com/questions/272215/seeing-apt-get-changelogs-for-to-be-upgraded-packages>

Install: `sudo apt install apt-listchanges`

Run this one-liner:

```bash
(cd $(mktemp -d) && apt download $(apt list -qq --upgradable | cut -f1 -d"/") && apt-listchanges -h --latest=1 *.deb) | grep urgency
```

May need to do some stderr/stdout finagling
Doesn't need sudo

Example result:

```text
WARNING: apt does not have a stable CLI interface. Use with caution in scripts.

WARNING: apt does not have a stable CLI interface. Use with caution in scripts.

linux (5.15.0-135.146) jammy; urgency=medium
tzdata (2025a-0ubuntu0.22.04) jammy; urgency=medium
```

> [!NOTE] Ubuntu LTS 20
> apt-listchanges for Ubuntu LTS 20 does not support `--latest` option. But it does seem to work after a couple of runs since it uses `apt list --upgradable`. YMMV
> You can try this:
>
> ```bash
> (cd $(mktemp -d) && apt download $(apt list -qq --upgradable | cut -f1 -d"/") && apt-listchanges -h *.deb) | grep urgency
> ```

#### apt-show-versions

Install: `sudo apt install apt-show-versions`

```bash
apt-show-versions | grep upgradeable | grep security
# OR
apt-show-versions -u
# OR
apt-show-versions -u -b | grep security
```

> [!NOTE] security or not?
> I noticed that `apt-show-versions` listed a package as being `-security` when it wasn't using `security` in other tools like `apt list --upgradable` or `apt-check`

From: <https://askubuntu.com/a/556399/443835>

#### apt-check

`/usr/lib/update-notifier/apt-check`

* [ ] cover apt-check - <https://askubuntu.com/questions/441921/why-does-usr-lib-update-notifier-apt-check-not-agree-with-apt-get-upgrade>

## Unattended Upgrade Options

<https://documentation.ubuntu.com/server/how-to/software/automatic-updates/>\
<https://documentation.ubuntu.com/server/how-to/software/package-management/#automatic-updates>\
<https://pimylifeup.com/unattended-upgrades-debian-ubuntu/>

`/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/50unattended-upgrades`:

Enable/Disable Updating and Upgrading:

> [!NOTE] Defaults
> Default is for both to be enabled

```python
APT::Periodic::Update-Package-Lists "1";
APT::Periodic::Unattended-Upgrade "1";
```

Reboots:

See <https://documentation.ubuntu.com/server/how-to/software/automatic-updates/#reboots>

Default is false. Change to true if it should auto-reboot the server.
If changing to true consider if `Automatic-Reboot-WithUsers` and/or `Unattended-Upgrade::Automatic-Reboot-Time` should be changed.

```python
Unattended-Upgrade::Automatic-Reboot "false";
Unattended-Upgrade::Automatic-Reboot-WithUsers "true";
Unattended-Upgrade::Automatic-Reboot-Time "now";
```

Email Updates:

See <https://documentation.ubuntu.com/server/how-to/software/automatic-updates/#notifications>

```python
Unattended-Upgrade::Mail "it-notifications-extra@careflight.org";
Unattended-Upgrade::MailReport "always";
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Just adding another package repository to an Ubuntu system WILL NOT make unattended-upgrades consider it for updates!

To adjust repos: <https://documentation.ubuntu.com/server/how-to/software/automatic-updates/#where-to-pick-updates-from>

### Block a package

<https://documentation.ubuntu.com/server/how-to/software/automatic-updates/#how-to-block-certain-packages>

Uses Python Regex: <https://docs.python.org/3/howto/regex.html>

Exclude Kernel Updates:

```python
Unattended-Upgrade::Package-Blacklist {
      "linux-headers";
      "linux-image";
      "linux-generic";
      "linux-modules";
};
```

OR

```python
Unattended-Upgrade::Package-Blacklist {
      "linux-*";
};
```

Block a package:

```python
Unattended-Upgrade::Package-Blacklist {
      "unifi*";
};
```

### SystemD Timers

> Systemd timer units, `apt-daily.timer` and `apt-daily-upgrade.timer`, trigger these actions at a scheduled time with a random delay. These timers activate services that execute the `/usr/lib/apt/apt.systemd.daily` script.
> However, it may happen that if the server is off at the time the timer unit elapses, the timer may be triggered immediately at the next startup (still subject to the `RandomizedDelaySec` value). As a result, they may often run on system startup and thereby cause immediate activity and prevent other package operations from taking place at that time. For example, if another package has to be installed, it would have to wait until the upgrades are completed.
>
> In many cases this is beneficial, but in some cases it might be counter-productive; examples are administrators with many shut-down machines or VM images that are only started for some quick action, which is delayed or even blocked by the unattended upgrades. To change this behaviour, we can change/override the configuration of both APT's timer units `apt-daily-upgrade.timer` and `apt-daily.timer`. To do so, use systemctl edit `<timer_unit>` and override the *Persistent* attribute setting it to *false*:
>
> ```text
> [Timer]
> Persistent=false
> ```
>
> With this change, the timer will trigger the service only on the next scheduled time. In other words, it won't catch up to the run it missed while the system was off. See the explanation for the *Persistent* option in [systemd.timer](https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/noble/en/man5/systemd.timer.5.html) manpage for more details.

Commit message:

added note about things being on other pages

pages/linux-tips.md, after:

---
title: Linux Tips
description: Tips and Tricks
published: true
categories:
    - Tech
type: pages
layout: pages
date: 2025-03-26T11:43:45.306Z
lastmod: 2025-04-16T00:20:05.686Z
tags:
    - Linux
    - References
    - Security
    - Tips
isdraft: true
fmContentType: pages
mermaid: false
preview: ""
keywords:
    - Linux
    - Tips
    - Tricks
    - Security
---

<!--- cSpell:ignore kexec listchanges poweroff groff -->
<!--- cSpell:disable --->
* [Man Page sections](#man-page-sections)
* [Termination Signals](#termination-signals)
* [Aliases](#aliases)
* [Running scripts at shutdown or reboot via SystemD](#running-scripts-at-shutdown-or-reboot-via-systemd)
* [Ubuntu and Debian Package Urgency](#ubuntu-and-debian-package-urgency)
  * [Using the urgency value](#using-the-urgency-value)
    * [apt-listchanges](#apt-listchanges)
    * [apt-show-versions](#apt-show-versions)
    * [apt-check](#apt-check)
* [Unattended Upgrade Options](#unattended-upgrade-options)
  * [Block a package](#block-a-package)
  * [SystemD Timers](#systemd-timers)
<!--- cSpell:enable --->

> [!NOTE] Linux and Bash
> Some of the below are bash related but may sit better in this page than the [Linux Commands](linux-commands.md) or [Bash Tips](bash-tips.md) pages, and vice versa.

## Man Page sections

* [ ] Consider placement of this topic as its more of a reference.

1 - Executable programs or shell commands\
2 - System calls (functions provided by the kernel)\
3 - Library calls (functions within program libraries)\
4 - Special files (usually found in /dev)\
5 - File formats and conventions, e.g. /etc/passwd\
6 - Games\
7 - Miscellaneous (including macro packages and conventions), e.g., man(7), groff(7)\
8 - System administration commands (usually only for root)\
9 - Kernel routines [Non-standard]

Web based man pages:

* **<https://linux.die.net/man/>**
* <https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages/>
* <https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Man_page>

* <https://manpages.ubuntu.com/>
* <https://manpages.debian.org/>

See also [man pages in Linux Commands](linux-commands.md#man-pages)

## Termination Signals

* [ ] This seems like something for a Linux reference page. Consider (another) split

* **<https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/251195/difference-between-less-violent-kill-signal-hup-1-int-2-and-term-15>**
* <https://www.gnu.org/software/libc/manual/html_node/Termination-Signals.html>
* <https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/5642/what-if-kill-9-does-not-work> (this is not so much required reading but it is insightful)

SIGKILL: FORCE QUIT NO MATTER WHAT - CANNOT BE IGNORED\
SIGINT: <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd> in a terminal. "stop what you're doing right now and wait for further user input". Non-interactive programs usually treat it like SIGTERM\
SIGTERM: Normal Kill signal. "App exit cleanly"\
SIGHUP: SIGTERM but occurs when you disconnect from terminal. For daemons, this should mean "reload your configuration"\
SIGQUIT: harshest of the ignorable signals. App is misbehaving and should be killed now, also leave a core dump if configured. Apps can set a handler as something is pretty wrong.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
<details>
<summary>Click for full answer from <a href="https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/251195/difference-between-less-violent-kill-signal-hup-1-int-2-and-term-15">stack overflow</a>:</summary>

>
> SIGKILL never fails to kill a running process, that's the point. Other signals exist to give the application a chance to react.
>
> The default behavior of SIGINT, SIGTERM, SIGQUIT and SIGHUP is to kill the program. However applications are allowed to install a handler for these signals. So the actual behavior of applications when they receive these signals is a matter of convention (which each application may or may not follow), not of system design.
>
> SIGINT is the "weakest" of the lot. Its conventional meaning is "stop what you're doing right now and wait for further user input". It's the signal generated by <kbd><kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd></kbd> in a terminal. Non-interactive programs generally treat it like SIGTERM.
>
> SIGTERM is the "normal" kill signal. It tells the application to exit cleanly. The application might take time to save its state, to free resources such as temporary files that would otherwise stay behind, etc. An application that doesn't want to be interrupted during a critical application might ignore SIGTERM for a while.
>
> SIGHUP is about the same as SIGTERM in terms of harshness, but it has a specific role because it's automatically sent to applications running in a terminal when the user disconnects from that terminal (etymologically, because the user was connecting via a telephone line and the modem hung up). SIGHUP is often involuntary, unlike SIGTERM which has to be sent explicitly, so applications should try to save their state on a SIGHUP. SIGHUP also has a completely different conventional meaning for non-user-facing applications (daemons), which is to reload their configuration file.
>
> SIGQUIT is the harshest of the ignorable signals. It's meant to be used when an application is misbehaving and needs to be killed now, and by default it traditionally left a core dump file (modern systems where most users wouldn't know what a core file is tend to not produce them by default). Applications can set a handler but should do very little (in particular not save any state) because the intent of SIGQUIT is to be used when something is seriously wrong.
>
</details>
<!-- markdownlint-enable MD033 -->

## Aliases

**Aliases can be a double edged sword.**

When setting up aliases, consider that: If you add an option to a command as an alias, when you remote to a new system, it may not have that alias.\
\Consider the usefulness of a permanent alias vs the gain in muscle memory

## Running scripts at shutdown or reboot via SystemD

If you have seen a tip that suggests you put a script you want run at shutdown/reboot/poweroff/halt in `/lib/systemd/system-shutdown/` or `/usr/lib/systemd/system-shutdown/` and it doesn't work, there is a **big catch!**

From <https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/latest/systemd-halt.service.html>:

> *"Shortly before executing the actual system power-off/halt/reboot/kexec, systemd-shutdown will run all executables in `/usr/lib/systemd/system-shutdown/` and pass one arguments to them: either "poweroff", "halt", "reboot", or "kexec", depending on the chosen action. All executables in this directory are executed in parallel, and execution of the action is not continued before all executables finished. (A safety timeout of 90s is applied however.) Note that these executables are run <ins>after all services have been shut down, and after most mounts have been unmounted</ins> (the root file system as well as `/run/` and various API file systems are still around though). This means any programs dropped into this directory must be prepared to run in such a limited execution environment and not rely on external services or hierarchies such as `/var/` to be around (or writable)."*

This means if your script needs certain things it may fail.

Alternatives are:

* [systemd-soft-reboot.service](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/latest/systemd-soft-reboot.service.html) - I haven't looked into this, not sure how useful it is as it only reboots user-space.
* Create a SystemD Service to run your script at shutdown ([REF](https://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/questions/89732/run-a-script-at-shutdown-on-raspbian#:~:text=EDIT%3A%20If%20it%27s%20not%20working%20try%20this%20one%3A))

Based off: <https://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/questions/89732/run-a-script-at-shutdown-on-raspbian>

## Ubuntu and Debian Package Urgency

From <https://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-controlfields.html#urgency>:
<!--- <!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line MD033 -->
> This is a description of how important it is to upgrade to this version from previous ones. It consists of a single keyword taking one of the values `low`, `medium`, `high`, `emergency`, or `critical`<sup>12</sup> (not case-sensitive) followed by an optional commentary (separated by a space) which is usually in parentheses. For example:
>
> `Urgency: low (HIGH for users of diversions)`
>
> The value of this field is usually extracted from the `debian/changelog` file - see [Debian changelog: debian/changelog](https://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-source.html#s-dpkgchangelog).

From <https://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-controlfields.html#id27>:

> [12]
> Other urgency values are supported with configuration changes in the archive software but are not used in Debian. The urgency affects how quickly a package will be considered for inclusion into the `testing` distribution and gives an indication of the importance of any fixes included in the upload. `Emergency` and `critical` are treated as synonymous.

Ubuntu ref: <https://canonical-ubuntu-packaging-guide.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/reference/debian-dir-overview/>

**Question: Does the urgency value relate to the ubuntu security notice value?**

* [ ] consider text about urgency / cve matching

### Using the urgency value

* [ ] link in with nagios check_apt critical options and critical regex
* [ ] cover which of the above are included with ubuntu vs being 3rd party

#### apt-listchanges

From <https://askubuntu.com/questions/272215/seeing-apt-get-changelogs-for-to-be-upgraded-packages>

Install: `sudo apt install apt-listchanges`

Run this one-liner:

```bash
(cd $(mktemp -d) && apt download $(apt list -qq --upgradable | cut -f1 -d"/") && apt-listchanges -h --latest=1 *.deb) | grep urgency
```

May need to do some stderr/stdout finagling
Doesn't need sudo

Example result:

```text
WARNING: apt does not have a stable CLI interface. Use with caution in scripts.

WARNING: apt does not have a stable CLI interface. Use with caution in scripts.

linux (5.15.0-135.146) jammy; urgency=medium
tzdata (2025a-0ubuntu0.22.04) jammy; urgency=medium
```

> [!NOTE] Ubuntu LTS 20
> apt-listchanges for Ubuntu LTS 20 does not support `--latest` option. But it does seem to work after a couple of runs since it uses `apt list --upgradable`. YMMV
> You can try this:
>
> ```bash
> (cd $(mktemp -d) && apt download $(apt list -qq --upgradable | cut -f1 -d"/") && apt-listchanges -h *.deb) | grep urgency
> ```

#### apt-show-versions

Install: `sudo apt install apt-show-versions`

```bash
apt-show-versions | grep upgradeable | grep security
# OR
apt-show-versions -u
# OR
apt-show-versions -u -b | grep security
```

> [!NOTE] security or not?
> I noticed that `apt-show-versions` listed a package as being `-security` when it wasn't using `security` in other tools like `apt list --upgradable` or `apt-check`

From: <https://askubuntu.com/a/556399/443835>

#### apt-check

`/usr/lib/update-notifier/apt-check`

* [ ] cover apt-check - <https://askubuntu.com/questions/441921/why-does-usr-lib-update-notifier-apt-check-not-agree-with-apt-get-upgrade>

## Unattended Upgrade Options

<https://documentation.ubuntu.com/server/how-to/software/automatic-updates/>\
<https://documentation.ubuntu.com/server/how-to/software/package-management/#automatic-updates>\
<https://pimylifeup.com/unattended-upgrades-debian-ubuntu/>

`/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/50unattended-upgrades`:

Enable/Disable Updating and Upgrading:

> [!NOTE] Defaults
> Default is for both to be enabled

```python
APT::Periodic::Update-Package-Lists "1";
APT::Periodic::Unattended-Upgrade "1";
```

Reboots:

See <https://documentation.ubuntu.com/server/how-to/software/automatic-updates/#reboots>

Default is false. Change to true if it should auto-reboot the server.
If changing to true consider if `Automatic-Reboot-WithUsers` and/or `Unattended-Upgrade::Automatic-Reboot-Time` should be changed.

```python
Unattended-Upgrade::Automatic-Reboot "false";
Unattended-Upgrade::Automatic-Reboot-WithUsers "true";
Unattended-Upgrade::Automatic-Reboot-Time "now";
```

Email Updates:

See <https://documentation.ubuntu.com/server/how-to/software/automatic-updates/#notifications>

```python
Unattended-Upgrade::Mail "it-notifications-extra@careflight.org";
Unattended-Upgrade::MailReport "always";
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Just adding another package repository to an Ubuntu system WILL NOT make unattended-upgrades consider it for updates!

To adjust repos: <https://documentation.ubuntu.com/server/how-to/software/automatic-updates/#where-to-pick-updates-from>

### Block a package

<https://documentation.ubuntu.com/server/how-to/software/automatic-updates/#how-to-block-certain-packages>

Uses Python Regex: <https://docs.python.org/3/howto/regex.html>

Exclude Kernel Updates:

```python
Unattended-Upgrade::Package-Blacklist {
      "linux-headers";
      "linux-image";
      "linux-generic";
      "linux-modules";
};
```

OR

```python
Unattended-Upgrade::Package-Blacklist {
      "linux-*";
};
```

Block a package:

```python
Unattended-Upgrade::Package-Blacklist {
      "unifi*";
};
```

### SystemD Timers

> Systemd timer units, `apt-daily.timer` and `apt-daily-upgrade.timer`, trigger these actions at a scheduled time with a random delay. These timers activate services that execute the `/usr/lib/apt/apt.systemd.daily` script.
> However, it may happen that if the server is off at the time the timer unit elapses, the timer may be triggered immediately at the next startup (still subject to the `RandomizedDelaySec` value). As a result, they may often run on system startup and thereby cause immediate activity and prevent other package operations from taking place at that time. For example, if another package has to be installed, it would have to wait until the upgrades are completed.
>
> In many cases this is beneficial, but in some cases it might be counter-productive; examples are administrators with many shut-down machines or VM images that are only started for some quick action, which is delayed or even blocked by the unattended upgrades. To change this behaviour, we can change/override the configuration of both APT's timer units `apt-daily-upgrade.timer` and `apt-daily.timer`. To do so, use systemctl edit `<timer_unit>` and override the *Persistent* attribute setting it to *false*:
>
> ```text
> [Timer]
> Persistent=false
> ```
>
> With this change, the timer will trigger the service only on the next scheduled time. In other words, it won't catch up to the run it missed while the system was off. See the explanation for the *Persistent* option in [systemd.timer](https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/noble/en/man5/systemd.timer.5.html) manpage for more details.
