pages/misc-tools.md, before:

---
title: Misc Tools
description: And not enough toolboxes
categories:
    - Tech
type: pages
layout: pages
isdraft: false
published: true
tags:
    - Tools
fmContentType: pages
date: 2025-01-20T20:00:00
lastmod: 2025-04-15T01:40:59.556Z
keywords:
    - Tools
---

<!--- cSpell:words Hostmaster Hostmasters APNIC WHOIS Vesa -->
<!--- cSpell:ignore Nirsoft cyrilbois Deview pyrexp Keji -->

<!--- cSpell:disable --->
* [Network Tools](#network-tools)
  * [Speedtest](#speedtest)
* [Linux Tools](#linux-tools)
* [Software Tools](#software-tools)
  * [Python](#python)
    * [Maker Variants](#maker-variants)
* [KQL Tools](#kql-tools)
* [PowerShell Tools](#powershell-tools)
* [Microsoft 365 Tools](#microsoft-365-tools)
* [Windows Tools](#windows-tools)
  * [Hardware](#hardware)
  * [Provisioning and Deployment Tools](#provisioning-and-deployment-tools)
* [Video Cables](#video-cables)
* [Development Tools](#development-tools)
  * [Vagrant](#vagrant)
  * [VSCode](#vscode)
* [Chrome or Edge Extensions](#chrome-or-edge-extensions)
* [Misc Web Tools](#misc-web-tools)
* [Security Tools](#security-tools)
* [Master Tools](#master-tools)
  * [History and Background](#history-and-background)
  * [Webmaster](#webmaster)
    * [Search](#search)
  * [Hostmaster](#hostmaster)
  * [Postmaster](#postmaster)
  * [NOC](#noc)
<!--- cSpell:enable --->

## Network Tools

[Network Calculators](https://subnetmask.info) - now seems to redirect to <https://web.archive.org/web/20240429134052if_/https://subnetmask.info/>\
<https://wq.apnic.net/static/search.html>\
<https://netox.apnic.net/>\
<http://lg.he.net/>\
<https://bgp.he.net/>\
<https://www.ripe.net/>\
<https://www.ausnog.net/tools/lg>\
<https://lg.aussiebroadband.com.au/>\
<https://lists.ausnog.net/pipermail/ausnog/>\
<https://www.internetexchangemap.com/>\
<https://www.peeringdb.com/>\
<http://gfblip.appspot.com/>\
<https://ixpdb.euro-ix.net/en/>\
<https://crt.sh/>\
<https://search.censys.io/>\
<https://dns.google/>\
<https://lookup.icann.org/en>
<http://dns.squish.net/>\
<http://www.webdnstools.com/dnstools/domain_check>\
<https://www.cotse.net/users/initiate/Security.htm>\
<http://www.subnetmask.info/>\
<https://developers.cloudflare.com/dns/reference/recommended-third-party-tools/>\
<https://lists.ausnog.net/pipermail/ausnog/>\
<https://docs.wpvip.com/domains/check-dns-record-time-to-live/#:~:text=Run%20dig%20%40%20%2B,current%20TTL%20for%20the%20domain>\
<https://regauth.standards.ieee.org/standards-ra-web/pub/view.html#registries>\
<https://www.talosintelligence.com/reputation_center/lookup>\
<https://www.appmaildev.com/>

### Speedtest

<https://speedtest.net>\
<https://fast.com>\
<https://speed.cloudflare.com>\
<https://wifiman.com>\
<https://www.ozspeedtest.com>\
<https://www.aussiebroadband.com.au/speed-test/>

## Linux Tools

<https://explainshell.com/>

## Software Tools

[regex101](https://regex101.com/)\
[pyrexp](https://pythonium.net/regex) - Thanks to [@cyrilbois](https://github.com/cyrilbois) for the PR and making the tool!

### Python

#### Maker Variants

<https://micropython.org/> - lean version of python for microcontrollers, like arduino\
<https://circuitpython.org/> - beginner / easier to user version of the above for microcontrollers\
<https://circuitpython.org/blinka> - use circuitpython on SBCs like the Raspberry Pi

## KQL Tools

<https://www.kqlsearch.com/>

Check out [Misc KQL References and Resources](kql-queries.md#misc-kql-references-and-resources)

## PowerShell Tools

[PowerShell Module Browser](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/)

## Microsoft 365 Tools

<https://microsoft365dsc.com/>\
<https://aka.ms/m365dscwhitepaper>\
<https://microsoft365dsc.com/resources/overview/>

## Windows Tools

**<https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/powertoys/>**\
**<https://cmder.app/>**\
<https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/latest.html> - see also: [PuTTY Commands](putty-commands.md)\
**<https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/>**\
**<https://www.vandyke.com/products/securecrt/windows.html> - Its not free but its good.**\
<https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/> - i'm not a massive fan but it comes in useful with the portable edition, including cygwin, quick port forwarding, and some other niceties.\
**[Total Commander](https://www.ghisler.com/)** - THE PIMP!

* <https://www.ghisler.ch/wiki/index.php?title=Main_Page>: Total Commander Wiki (not sure if official)
* [Useful External Tools for Total Commander](https://www.ghisler.com/tools.htm)
* **[Total Commander plugins](https://www.ghisler.com/plugins.htm)**

  > [!TIP] SFTP
  > Note to self: When you forget, *again*, how to access an SSH Connection via the plugin: Its not in FTP Connections, its in Network Neighbourhood

<https://aka.ms/terminal> / <https://github.com/microsoft/terminal> - i'm not totally on the Windows Terminal Bandwagon yet but its not shit.

### Hardware

**[USBDeview](https://www.nirsoft.net/utils/usb_devices_view.html)** - really good tool. Shows info about USB device drivers and USB Devices (also nearly everything from Nirsoft is awesome)\
[DevManView](https://www.nirsoft.net/utils/device_manager_view.html) - Alternative to device manager of Windows (have not used it but everything from Nirsoft is awesome)

### Provisioning and Deployment Tools

<https://github.com/CodingWonders/DISMTools>

## Video Cables

Somewhat specific cables I often buy and want to remember.

[Keji 4K HDMI Cable 5m](https://www.officeworks.com.au/shop/officeworks/p/keji-4k-hdmi-cable-5m-kejihdmi5m) - cheapish for 5M\
[StarTech.com 3m 10 ft White Mini DisplayPort to DisplayPort 1.2 Adapter Cable M/M - DisplayPort 4k with HBR2 Support - Mini DP to DP Cable](https://www.amazon.com.au/dp/B0081ZBNCA)\
[Club3D CAC-2067 DisplayPort to DisplayPort 1.4/Hbr3/ HDR Support Cable DP 1.4 8K 60Hz 1 Meter/3.28 Feet Black Vesa Certified](https://www.amazon.com.au/dp/B076D6GGG8)\
Active DisplayPort to HDMI for Lenovo Docks that you prefer: [CableCreation Active DisplayPort to HDMI 4K 60Hz Cable 2.4M(8FT) Support Multi-Screen Display, DP to HDMI HDR Monitor Cable Unidirectional, DP Cable 1.4 to HDMI Support 4K 30Hz, 2K/1080P 144Hz, 120Hz](https://www.amazon.com.au/CableCreation-Unidirectional-DisplayPort-Eyefinity-Multi-Display/dp/B082CXMBCQ?ref_=ast_sto_dp&th=1)

## Development Tools

### Vagrant

**<https://portal.cloud.hashicorp.com/vagrant/discover>** - vagrant boxes search\
<https://www.vagrantup.com/>\
<https://developer.hashicorp.com/vagrant/docs>\
**<https://developer.hashicorp.com/vagrant/docs/cli>**

Common Vagrant Commands:

```bash
mkdir nameforproject
vagrant init ubuntu/jammy64
vagrant up
vagrant snapshot save
vagrant snapshot restore
vagrant halt
vagrant destory
vagrant box list
vagrant box remove box/name
```

### VSCode

[VSCode Settings and Extensions](vscode-settings-and-extensions.md)

## Chrome or Edge Extensions

* Session Buddy:
  * <https://microsoftedge.microsoft.com/addons/detail/session-buddy/hgpnndpninkidjggjjhfadpmipappndb?hl=en-GB>\
  * <https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/session-buddy/edacconmaakjimmfgnblocblbcdcpbko>
[Refined Microsoft Learn](https://github.com/merill/refined-microsoft-learn/)
  * <https://microsoftedge.microsoft.com/addons/detail/refined-microsoft-learn/ohjiccikicdhcdlophelgjppakkdlfmg>\
  * <https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/microsoft-learn-boost/mkacacgjjgafnjekdcoodibajidagopd>
* Context Menu Search:
  * <https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/context-menu-search/ocpcmghnefmdhljkoiapafejjohldoga>

## Misc Web Tools

<https://caiorss.github.io/bookmarklet-maker/>\
[Network Calculators](https://subnetmask.info) - now seems to redirect to <https://web.archive.org/web/20240429134052if_/https://subnetmask.info/>\
[The Most Accurate Online Ruler](https://www.ginifab.com/feeds/cm_to_inch/actual_size_ruler.html)\
[Actual size of Online Ruler (cm/mm)](https://www.piliapp.com/actual-size/cm-ruler/)\
<https://www.drawio.com/> / <http://draw.io/>\
<https://www.google.com.au/advanced_search> - also check out [Search Tools in Misc References](misc-references.md#search-tools)

## Security Tools

**<https://crt.sh/>**\
<https://search.censys.io>\
<https://www.talosintelligence.com/reputation_center/>\
<https://www.talosintelligence.com/reputation_center/lookup?search=example.com> - lookup string\
<https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/> - does a bit more than just an SSL test but thats it main function

<https://dicepass.org>\
<https://github.com/onetimesecret/onetimesecret> / <https://onetimesecret.com/>\
<https://www.random.org> / <https://www.random.org/passwords/?num=5&len=16&format=html&rnd=new>

## Master Tools

### History and Background

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2142> MAILBOX NAMES FOR COMMON SERVICES, ROLES AND FUNCTIONS

### Webmaster

<https://analytics.google.com>

#### Search

<https://www.bing.com/webmasters>

<https://search.google.com/search-console>\
<https://www.google.com/webmasters/tools/siteoverview> - older site that may not be relevant any more

### Hostmaster

**<https://www.whatsmydns.net>** - DNS Replication Check\
**<http://dns.squish.net>** - DNS Traversal Check\
**<https://dns.google>**\
<https://developers.cloudflare.com/dns/reference/recommended-third-party-tools/>:

* [DNSViz](https://dnsviz.net/): A web-based tool for visualizing the status of a DNS zone to understand and troubleshoot the deployment of DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC)
* [Dig Web Interface](https://digwebinterface.com/): An online DNS lookup tool based on the command line interface dig. Users can skip the process of entering commands with complicated parameters in the terminal by entering the same information in this web tool and getting the same results.
* [Mess with DNS](https://messwithdns.net/): An educational resource that encourages users to experiment with DNS records by providing users with a domain where they are free to play around and break things during the learning process.

<http://www.webdnstools.com/dnstools/domain_check>\
<https://lookup.icann.org/en> - RDAP (whois replacement)\
RDAP Client from ICANN: <https://github.com/icann/icann-rdap/wiki/RDAP-command>

<https://docs.wpvip.com/domains/check-dns-record-time-to-live/#:~:text=Run%20dig%20%40%20%2B,current%20TTL%20for%20the%20domain.>

### Postmaster

Also often includes abuse functions

**<https://gmail.com/postmaster/>** - if you have a domain you can sign up and should\
<https://senders.yahooinc.com> - if you have a domain you can sign up - not as useful as google postmaster but still good\
<https://blog.postmaster.yahooinc.com>\
<https://sendersupport.olc.protection.outlook.com/pm/Postmaster>\
<https://sendersupport.olc.protection.outlook.com/snds/>\
<https://sendersupport.olc.protection.outlook.com/snds/JMRP.aspx> - Junk email reporting program - works if you host your own email/own the IP Addresses.

**<https://mha.azurewebsites.net>** - Microsoft Message Header Analyzer - really good header analyzer\
<https://toolbox.googleapps.com/apps/messageheader/> - Google Message Header Analyzer\
**<https://mxtoolbox.com/SuperTool.aspx>**\
**<https://mxtoolbox.com/EmailHeaders.aspx>**\
**<https://mxtoolbox.com/emailhealth>** - good email health overview for a specific domain\
**<https://mxtoolbox.com/dmarc.aspx>**\
**<https://mxtoolbox.com>** - really great site with lots of email tools\
**<https://dmarcian.com/dmarc-tools/>**\
<https://dmarcly.com/tools/>\
<https://www.appmaildev.com>

> [!TIP] TIP
> Links to Exchange and Exchange Online Header Messages are in [Microsoft 365 Tips](microsoft-365-tips.md#exchange-email-header-references)

### NOC

[APNIC WHOIS Search | APNIC](https://wq.apnic.net/static/search.html)\
[APNIC NetOX](https://netox.apnic.net/)

[Looking Glass - Hurricane Electric (AS9639)](http://lg.he.net/)\
[Hurricane Electric BGP Toolkit](https://bgp.he.net/)

<http://whois.ripe.net/>
<https://apps.db.ripe.net/db-web-ui/query>\
[RIPE Network Coordination Centre](https://www.ripe.net)\
[Looking Glasses](https://www.ausnog.net/tools/lg)

**<https://www.peeringdb.com>**\
<https://www.internetexchangemap.com>\
<https://ixpdb.euro-ix.net/en/>

<http://gfblip.appspot.com>

<https://radar.cloudflare.com>

Commit message:

added google admin tools and end user guides for getting mail headers

pages/misc-tools.md, after:

---
title: Misc Tools
description: And not enough toolboxes
categories:
    - Tech
type: pages
layout: pages
isdraft: false
published: true
tags:
    - Tools
fmContentType: pages
date: 2025-01-20T20:00:00
lastmod: 2025-04-15T01:48:50.310Z
keywords:
    - Tools
---

<!--- cSpell:words Hostmaster Hostmasters APNIC WHOIS Vesa -->
<!--- cSpell:ignore Nirsoft cyrilbois Deview pyrexp Keji -->

<!--- cSpell:disable --->
* [Network Tools](#network-tools)
  * [Speedtest](#speedtest)
* [Linux Tools](#linux-tools)
* [Software Tools](#software-tools)
  * [Python](#python)
    * [Maker Variants](#maker-variants)
* [KQL Tools](#kql-tools)
* [PowerShell Tools](#powershell-tools)
* [Microsoft 365 Tools](#microsoft-365-tools)
* [Windows Tools](#windows-tools)
  * [Hardware](#hardware)
  * [Provisioning and Deployment Tools](#provisioning-and-deployment-tools)
* [Video Cables](#video-cables)
* [Development Tools](#development-tools)
  * [Vagrant](#vagrant)
  * [VSCode](#vscode)
* [Chrome or Edge Extensions](#chrome-or-edge-extensions)
* [Misc Web Tools](#misc-web-tools)
* [Security Tools](#security-tools)
* [Master Tools](#master-tools)
  * [History and Background](#history-and-background)
  * [Webmaster](#webmaster)
    * [Search](#search)
  * [Hostmaster](#hostmaster)
  * [Postmaster](#postmaster)
  * [NOC](#noc)
<!--- cSpell:enable --->

## Network Tools

[Network Calculators](https://subnetmask.info) - now seems to redirect to <https://web.archive.org/web/20240429134052if_/https://subnetmask.info/>\
<https://wq.apnic.net/static/search.html>\
<https://netox.apnic.net/>\
<http://lg.he.net/>\
<https://bgp.he.net/>\
<https://www.ripe.net/>\
<https://www.ausnog.net/tools/lg>\
<https://lg.aussiebroadband.com.au/>\
<https://lists.ausnog.net/pipermail/ausnog/>\
<https://www.internetexchangemap.com/>\
<https://www.peeringdb.com/>\
<http://gfblip.appspot.com/>\
<https://ixpdb.euro-ix.net/en/>\
<https://crt.sh/>\
<https://search.censys.io/>\
<https://dns.google/>\
<https://lookup.icann.org/en>
<http://dns.squish.net/>\
<http://www.webdnstools.com/dnstools/domain_check>\
<https://www.cotse.net/users/initiate/Security.htm>\
<http://www.subnetmask.info/>\
<https://developers.cloudflare.com/dns/reference/recommended-third-party-tools/>\
<https://lists.ausnog.net/pipermail/ausnog/>\
<https://docs.wpvip.com/domains/check-dns-record-time-to-live/#:~:text=Run%20dig%20%40%20%2B,current%20TTL%20for%20the%20domain>\
<https://regauth.standards.ieee.org/standards-ra-web/pub/view.html#registries>\
<https://www.talosintelligence.com/reputation_center/lookup>\
<https://www.appmaildev.com/>

### Speedtest

<https://speedtest.net>\
<https://fast.com>\
<https://speed.cloudflare.com>\
<https://wifiman.com>\
<https://www.ozspeedtest.com>\
<https://www.aussiebroadband.com.au/speed-test/>

## Linux Tools

<https://explainshell.com/>

## Software Tools

[regex101](https://regex101.com/)\
[pyrexp](https://pythonium.net/regex) - Thanks to [@cyrilbois](https://github.com/cyrilbois) for the PR and making the tool!

### Python

#### Maker Variants

<https://micropython.org/> - lean version of python for microcontrollers, like arduino\
<https://circuitpython.org/> - beginner / easier to user version of the above for microcontrollers\
<https://circuitpython.org/blinka> - use circuitpython on SBCs like the Raspberry Pi

## KQL Tools

<https://www.kqlsearch.com/>

Check out [Misc KQL References and Resources](kql-queries.md#misc-kql-references-and-resources)

## PowerShell Tools

[PowerShell Module Browser](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/)

## Microsoft 365 Tools

<https://microsoft365dsc.com/>\
<https://aka.ms/m365dscwhitepaper>\
<https://microsoft365dsc.com/resources/overview/>

## Windows Tools

**<https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/powertoys/>**\
**<https://cmder.app/>**\
<https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/latest.html> - see also: [PuTTY Commands](putty-commands.md)\
**<https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/>**\
**<https://www.vandyke.com/products/securecrt/windows.html> - Its not free but its good.**\
<https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/> - i'm not a massive fan but it comes in useful with the portable edition, including cygwin, quick port forwarding, and some other niceties.\
**[Total Commander](https://www.ghisler.com/)** - THE PIMP!

* <https://www.ghisler.ch/wiki/index.php?title=Main_Page>: Total Commander Wiki (not sure if official)
* [Useful External Tools for Total Commander](https://www.ghisler.com/tools.htm)
* **[Total Commander plugins](https://www.ghisler.com/plugins.htm)**

  > [!TIP] SFTP
  > Note to self: When you forget, *again*, how to access an SSH Connection via the plugin: Its not in FTP Connections, its in Network Neighbourhood

<https://aka.ms/terminal> / <https://github.com/microsoft/terminal> - i'm not totally on the Windows Terminal Bandwagon yet but its not shit.

### Hardware

**[USBDeview](https://www.nirsoft.net/utils/usb_devices_view.html)** - really good tool. Shows info about USB device drivers and USB Devices (also nearly everything from Nirsoft is awesome)\
[DevManView](https://www.nirsoft.net/utils/device_manager_view.html) - Alternative to device manager of Windows (have not used it but everything from Nirsoft is awesome)

### Provisioning and Deployment Tools

<https://github.com/CodingWonders/DISMTools>

## Video Cables

Somewhat specific cables I often buy and want to remember.

[Keji 4K HDMI Cable 5m](https://www.officeworks.com.au/shop/officeworks/p/keji-4k-hdmi-cable-5m-kejihdmi5m) - cheapish for 5M\
[StarTech.com 3m 10 ft White Mini DisplayPort to DisplayPort 1.2 Adapter Cable M/M - DisplayPort 4k with HBR2 Support - Mini DP to DP Cable](https://www.amazon.com.au/dp/B0081ZBNCA)\
[Club3D CAC-2067 DisplayPort to DisplayPort 1.4/Hbr3/ HDR Support Cable DP 1.4 8K 60Hz 1 Meter/3.28 Feet Black Vesa Certified](https://www.amazon.com.au/dp/B076D6GGG8)\
Active DisplayPort to HDMI for Lenovo Docks that you prefer: [CableCreation Active DisplayPort to HDMI 4K 60Hz Cable 2.4M(8FT) Support Multi-Screen Display, DP to HDMI HDR Monitor Cable Unidirectional, DP Cable 1.4 to HDMI Support 4K 30Hz, 2K/1080P 144Hz, 120Hz](https://www.amazon.com.au/CableCreation-Unidirectional-DisplayPort-Eyefinity-Multi-Display/dp/B082CXMBCQ?ref_=ast_sto_dp&th=1)

## Development Tools

### Vagrant

**<https://portal.cloud.hashicorp.com/vagrant/discover>** - vagrant boxes search\
<https://www.vagrantup.com/>\
<https://developer.hashicorp.com/vagrant/docs>\
**<https://developer.hashicorp.com/vagrant/docs/cli>**

Common Vagrant Commands:

```bash
mkdir nameforproject
vagrant init ubuntu/jammy64
vagrant up
vagrant snapshot save
vagrant snapshot restore
vagrant halt
vagrant destory
vagrant box list
vagrant box remove box/name
```

### VSCode

[VSCode Settings and Extensions](vscode-settings-and-extensions.md)

## Chrome or Edge Extensions

* Session Buddy:
  * <https://microsoftedge.microsoft.com/addons/detail/session-buddy/hgpnndpninkidjggjjhfadpmipappndb?hl=en-GB>\
  * <https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/session-buddy/edacconmaakjimmfgnblocblbcdcpbko>
[Refined Microsoft Learn](https://github.com/merill/refined-microsoft-learn/)
  * <https://microsoftedge.microsoft.com/addons/detail/refined-microsoft-learn/ohjiccikicdhcdlophelgjppakkdlfmg>\
  * <https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/microsoft-learn-boost/mkacacgjjgafnjekdcoodibajidagopd>
* Context Menu Search:
  * <https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/context-menu-search/ocpcmghnefmdhljkoiapafejjohldoga>

## Misc Web Tools

<https://caiorss.github.io/bookmarklet-maker/>\
[Network Calculators](https://subnetmask.info) - now seems to redirect to <https://web.archive.org/web/20240429134052if_/https://subnetmask.info/>\
[The Most Accurate Online Ruler](https://www.ginifab.com/feeds/cm_to_inch/actual_size_ruler.html)\
[Actual size of Online Ruler (cm/mm)](https://www.piliapp.com/actual-size/cm-ruler/)\
<https://www.drawio.com/> / <http://draw.io/>\
<https://www.google.com.au/advanced_search> - also check out [Search Tools in Misc References](misc-references.md#search-tools)

## Security Tools

**<https://crt.sh/>**\
<https://search.censys.io>\
<https://www.talosintelligence.com/reputation_center/>\
<https://www.talosintelligence.com/reputation_center/lookup?search=example.com> - lookup string\
<https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/> - does a bit more than just an SSL test but thats it main function

<https://dicepass.org>\
<https://github.com/onetimesecret/onetimesecret> / <https://onetimesecret.com/>\
<https://www.random.org> / <https://www.random.org/passwords/?num=5&len=16&format=html&rnd=new>

## Master Tools

### History and Background

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2142> MAILBOX NAMES FOR COMMON SERVICES, ROLES AND FUNCTIONS

### Webmaster

<https://analytics.google.com>\
[Google Admin Toolbox](https://toolbox.googleapps.com/apps/main/)

#### Search

<https://www.bing.com/webmasters>

<https://search.google.com/search-console>\
<https://www.google.com/webmasters/tools/siteoverview> - older site that may not be relevant any more

### Hostmaster

**<https://www.whatsmydns.net>** - DNS Replication Check\
**<http://dns.squish.net>** - DNS Traversal Check\
**<https://dns.google>**\
<https://developers.cloudflare.com/dns/reference/recommended-third-party-tools/>:

* [DNSViz](https://dnsviz.net/): A web-based tool for visualizing the status of a DNS zone to understand and troubleshoot the deployment of DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC)
* [Dig Web Interface](https://digwebinterface.com/): An online DNS lookup tool based on the command line interface dig. Users can skip the process of entering commands with complicated parameters in the terminal by entering the same information in this web tool and getting the same results.
* [Mess with DNS](https://messwithdns.net/): An educational resource that encourages users to experiment with DNS records by providing users with a domain where they are free to play around and break things during the learning process.

<http://www.webdnstools.com/dnstools/domain_check>\
<https://lookup.icann.org/en> - RDAP (whois replacement)\
RDAP Client from ICANN: <https://github.com/icann/icann-rdap/wiki/RDAP-command>\
[Google Admin Toolbox](https://toolbox.googleapps.com/apps/main/)\
[Flush Cache | Public DNS | Google for Developers](https://developers.google.com/speed/public-dns/cache) - Request form to flush cache on Google DNS for a particular domain

<https://docs.wpvip.com/domains/check-dns-record-time-to-live/#:~:text=Run%20dig%20%40%20%2B,current%20TTL%20for%20the%20domain.>

### Postmaster

Also often includes abuse functions

**<https://gmail.com/postmaster/>** - if you have a domain you can sign up and should\
<https://senders.yahooinc.com> - if you have a domain you can sign up - not as useful as google postmaster but still good\
<https://blog.postmaster.yahooinc.com>\
<https://sendersupport.olc.protection.outlook.com/pm/Postmaster>\
<https://sendersupport.olc.protection.outlook.com/snds/>\
<https://sendersupport.olc.protection.outlook.com/snds/JMRP.aspx> - Junk email reporting program - works if you host your own email/own the IP Addresses.

**<https://mha.azurewebsites.net>** - Microsoft Message Header Analyzer - really good header analyzer\
<https://toolbox.googleapps.com/apps/messageheader/> - Google Message Header Analyzer\
**<https://mxtoolbox.com/SuperTool.aspx>**\
**<https://mxtoolbox.com/EmailHeaders.aspx>**\
**<https://mxtoolbox.com/emailhealth>** - good email health overview for a specific domain\
**<https://mxtoolbox.com/dmarc.aspx>**\
**<https://mxtoolbox.com>** - really great site with lots of email tools\
**<https://dmarcian.com/dmarc-tools/>**\
<https://dmarcly.com/tools/>\
<https://www.appmaildev.com>

> [!TIP] TIP
> Links to Exchange and Exchange Online Header Messages are in [Microsoft 365 Tips](microsoft-365-tips.md#exchange-email-header-references)

### NOC

[APNIC WHOIS Search | APNIC](https://wq.apnic.net/static/search.html)\
[APNIC NetOX](https://netox.apnic.net/)

[Looking Glass - Hurricane Electric (AS9639)](http://lg.he.net/)\
[Hurricane Electric BGP Toolkit](https://bgp.he.net/)

<http://whois.ripe.net/>
<https://apps.db.ripe.net/db-web-ui/query>\
[RIPE Network Coordination Centre](https://www.ripe.net)\
[Looking Glasses](https://www.ausnog.net/tools/lg)

**<https://www.peeringdb.com>**\
<https://www.internetexchangemap.com>\
<https://ixpdb.euro-ix.net/en/>

<http://gfblip.appspot.com>

<https://radar.cloudflare.com>
