pages/roaming-tips.md, before:

---
title: Roaming Tips
description: Tips and Tricks before and while roaming overseas
published: false
categories:
    - Tech
    - NotTech
type: pages
layout: pages
date: 2025-02-27T03:22:07.372Z
lastmod: 2025-03-06T13:04:22.611Z
tags:
    - Roaming
    - Travel
    - Internet
isdraft: true
fmContentType: pages
preview: ""
mermaid: false
---

<!--- cSpell:disable --->
* [Bias and Background](#bias-and-background)
* [Emergency calls](#emergency-calls)
* [Voicemail](#voicemail)
* [Australian Providers Roaming Info](#australian-providers-roaming-info)
* [eSims](#esims)
  * [2 eSims active](#2-esims-active)
  * [Providers](#providers)
* [Using vs Simultaneously Using (aka DSDA vs DSDS)](#using-vs-simultaneously-using-aka-dsda-vs-dsds)
* [Data Saving Tips](#data-saving-tips)
  * [Android Users](#android-users)
  * [Apple Users](#apple-users)
  * [Apps allowed to use Cellular data](#apps-allowed-to-use-cellular-data)
  * [Prepare beforehand](#prepare-beforehand)
<!--- cSpell:enable --->

<!--
* [x] disable sync (Android)
* [x] data saver
* [x] esim (data only and voice)
* [x] roaming for voice only
* [ ] call forwarding
* [ ] prepaid vs postpaid vs business
* [x] DSDA dual sim vs dual active vs the other one
* [x] * unlocked
* [x] * versions
* [x] 2 at once but 2 esims at once, only really moden
* [x] apps where you have set download over WiFi only off.
* [x] * yt music
* [x] * google photos
* [ ] Check your providers coverage
* [ ] Vodafone roaming still one of the best
* [x] offline prep (spotify, yt music, yt, Netflix etc)
* [x] esim providers I am aware that at least seem legit (have not used either so not a recommendation):
* [x] * Sally (Nord VPN)
* [x] * tripsim by Syd
* [x] * most don't do voice. Only data...
* [ ] Vodafone maratime roaming? $$$
* [ ] cell at Sea?
* [x] choose what you do and where
* [ ] VPNs work
* [ ] VPNs personal
* [ ] WiFi calling with no signal
* [ ] situation: personal telstra prepaid, wife with voda, bought cruise WiFi.
* [ ] learn voicemail remote access

Question : WiFi calling - does that need roaming??

-->

## Bias and Background

* TBC

## Emergency calls

* Not all countries use 000 or 911. Some use 999 or something else. Ref: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emergency_telephone_number>
* 112 works in all countries (AFAIK) from mobile phones as its part of the GSM Standard. Ref: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/112_(emergency_telephone_number)>
* Don't **assume** VoIP, Skype, WiFi Calling, etc will be able to make emergency calls. WiFi calling *may* do, but it may not.

## Voicemail

If you decide that you are not taking your normal phone with you or you want to keep your roaming costs down, but still check your voicemail, most voicemail providers have a way to check your voicemails remotely, which may be cheaper.

In a lot of cases its simply a matter of calling your own number and then pressing * or # during your voicemail greeting and then entering your pin. Check beforehand so you know your details and test you can access your voicemail remotely before you leave home.

## Australian Providers Roaming Info

Telstra Personal: <https://www.telstra.com.au/international-roaming>\
Telstra Small Business: TBC\
Telstra Enterprise: <https://www.telstra.com.au/business-enterprise/products/mobility-solutions/plans-and-devices/international-roaming>

Vodaphone Personal: TBC

Optus: TBC

## eSims

* A lot of assumptions around eSims are based off of having an unlocked phone.
* Most of the popular providers **don't** provide voice or sms services, only data
  * If you want voice roaming look for providers who also provide voice services.
  * Consider that since you have data you may be able to use signal, etc.
  * Check if they will allow 112 calls.
* If you're already using an esim, you need to check what your device supports in terms of the total number of eSims you can have installed, active and usable.
* *Most* devices can have multiple eSims **stored** but the number may be different per device.
* *Most* devices can have 2 sims **active**
* Only some newer devices can have **2 eSims** that are both **active**.
* *Most* devices can only **use** one sim at a time. See below for DSDS vs DSDA

### 2 eSims active

> [!NOTE] Active vs Using
> I am using the word *Active* specifically. This section is about having 2 eSim's *active* at the same time but not *using* 2 eSim's at the same time. There is a difference between *active* and *using* and *simultaneously using*

Having no physical sim and 2 eSims *active* is only available on some devices. (This list is not complete nor up to date)

* iPhone 13 or later[^1]
* iPhones without a physical tray[^1]
* Pixel??? - TBC

[^1]: <https://support.apple.com/en-au/109317#:~:text=iPhone%2013%20models%20and%20later%20also%20support%20two%20active%20eSIMs.%20iPhone%20models%20without%20a%20physical%20SIM%20tray%20support%20two%20active%20eSIMs.>

### Providers

These are some eSim providers I am aware of **that at least seem legit**

> [!IMPORTANT] Not Recommendations
> The below list is not complete, full or any kind of recommendation or endorsement. In most cases I haven't even used them.
<!-- cSpell:ignore tripsim -->
* [Sally (NordVPN)](https://saily.com/) - also has an app
* [tripsim by Syd](https://tripsim.com.au/) - related to sydney airport corporation

<!-- cSpell:ignore DSDA DSDS -->

## Using vs Simultaneously Using (aka DSDA vs DSDS)

> [!NOTE] Any type of sim
> This section talks about sims referring to both physical sims and eSims

DSDS: Dual Sim Dual Standby: Device supports 2 sims and both are active and registered with the mobile network but only **one** can be used at a time. You can't call off one sim and sms off another at the same time. More commonly, you can't use data off one sim and make calls off the sim at the same time. Most devices support DSDS.

DSDA: Dual Sim Dual Active: Both sims can be used simultaneously. Data off of one, calling off of another? Yes. Dual data connections? Technically use but I wouldn't *automatically* expect your <ins>bandwidth</ins> to double and I doubt your phone will be able start <ins>bonding</ins> the two links together. Your milage may vary.

[More Info](https://www.qualcomm.com/news/onq/2023/05/unleashing-full-potential-for-simultaneous-5g-cellular-connections-qualcomm-dsda-gen-2-with-dual-data#:~:text=The%20evolution%20of%205G%20DSDA%C2%A0)

## Data Saving Tips

### Android Users

* Turn on Data saver (Basic)
* Turn off Sync (Intermediate)
* Turn off data roaming (you can do this per sim if using dual sim)

### Apple Users

* Turn off data roaming (you can do this per sim if using dual sim)
* Turn off background sync

### Apps allowed to use Cellular data

* Some apps may be enabled to use cellular data instead of just wifi.
* **You should reconsider this when roaming since your data limits/allowances may be different**. Eg:
  * Perhaps you don't need to stream spotify, you can just use what is offline.
  * Perhaps Netflix doesn't need to download and/or stream over Cellular.
* Apple: [Use mobile/cellular data on your iPhone or iPad](https://support.apple.com/en-us/109323) - under *View how much data you're using* you can disable apps from using cellular data.
* Android: [Reduce & manage mobile data usage](https://support.google.com/fi/answer/9458407?hl=en#:~:text=Check%20your%20mobile%20data%20usage)

### Prepare beforehand

In addition to removing cellular data access for apps, you can also tell a lot of them to download things before you go offline. eg:

* You can tell spotify to download some playlists.
* You can get Netflix to download a show and its espoides (watch out for smart downloads if you have haven't followed the instructions in [Apps allowed to use Cellular data](#Apps allowed to use Cellular data))
* You can tell Google maps the area you would like to have offline maps for an area you are navigating too
* Review / consider the settings for Google Phones or iCloud Photos.

> [!IMPORTANT] Backups
> I'm not saying you should disable backups on device, but you should consider what would be the most important data for you to backup while away. In most cases the photos are often the most important thing people want to backup while away but it may be better to leave the backup enabled, don't have backups over cellular then make sure you can connect to a Wi-Fi network and then run the backup there. Or consider getting a seperate sim.
> **Consider what task you do where!**

Commit message:

added the other esim providers from notes

pages/roaming-tips.md, after:

---
title: Roaming Tips
description: Tips and Tricks before and while roaming overseas
published: false
categories:
    - Tech
    - NotTech
type: pages
layout: pages
date: 2025-02-27T03:22:07.372Z
lastmod: 2025-07-01T08:56:51.724Z
tags:
    - Roaming
    - Travel
    - Internet
isdraft: true
fmContentType: pages
preview: ""
mermaid: false
---

<!--- cSpell:disable --->
* [Bias and Background](#bias-and-background)
* [Emergency calls](#emergency-calls)
* [Voicemail](#voicemail)
* [Australian Providers Roaming Info](#australian-providers-roaming-info)
* [eSims](#esims)
  * [2 eSims active](#2-esims-active)
  * [Providers](#providers)
* [Using vs Simultaneously Using (aka DSDA vs DSDS)](#using-vs-simultaneously-using-aka-dsda-vs-dsds)
* [Data Saving Tips](#data-saving-tips)
  * [Android Users](#android-users)
  * [Apple Users](#apple-users)
  * [Apps allowed to use Cellular data](#apps-allowed-to-use-cellular-data)
  * [Prepare beforehand](#prepare-beforehand)
<!--- cSpell:enable --->

<!--
* [x] disable sync (Android)
* [x] data saver
* [x] esim (data only and voice)
* [x] roaming for voice only
* [ ] call forwarding
* [ ] prepaid vs postpaid vs business
* [x] DSDA dual sim vs dual active vs the other one
* [x] * unlocked
* [x] * versions
* [x] 2 at once but 2 esims at once, only really moden
* [x] apps where you have set download over WiFi only off.
* [x] * yt music
* [x] * google photos
* [ ] Check your providers coverage
* [ ] Vodafone roaming still one of the best
* [x] offline prep (spotify, yt music, yt, Netflix etc)
* [x] esim providers I am aware that at least seem legit (have not used either so not a recommendation):
* [x] * Sally (Nord VPN)
* [x] * tripsim by Syd
* [x] * most don't do voice. Only data...
* [ ] Vodafone maratime roaming? $$$
* [ ] cell at Sea?
* [x] choose what you do and where
* [ ] VPNs work
* [ ] VPNs personal
* [ ] WiFi calling with no signal
* [ ] situation: personal telstra prepaid, wife with voda, bought cruise WiFi.
* [ ] learn voicemail remote access

Question : WiFi calling - does that need roaming??

-->

## Bias and Background

* TBC

## Emergency calls

* Not all countries use 000 or 911. Some use 999 or something else. Ref: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emergency_telephone_number>
* 112 works in all countries (AFAIK) from mobile phones as its part of the GSM Standard. Ref: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/112_(emergency_telephone_number)>
* Don't **assume** VoIP, Skype, WiFi Calling, etc will be able to make emergency calls. WiFi calling *may* do, but it may not.

## Voicemail

If you decide that you are not taking your normal phone with you or you want to keep your roaming costs down, but still check your voicemail, most voicemail providers have a way to check your voicemails remotely, which may be cheaper.

In a lot of cases its simply a matter of calling your own number and then pressing * or # during your voicemail greeting and then entering your pin. Check beforehand so you know your details and test you can access your voicemail remotely before you leave home.

## Australian Providers Roaming Info

Telstra Personal: <https://www.telstra.com.au/international-roaming>\
Telstra Small Business: TBC\
Telstra Enterprise: <https://www.telstra.com.au/business-enterprise/products/mobility-solutions/plans-and-devices/international-roaming>

Vodaphone Personal: TBC

Optus: TBC

## eSims

* A lot of assumptions around eSims are based off of having an unlocked phone.
* Most of the popular providers **don't** provide voice or sms services, only data
  * If you want voice roaming look for providers who also provide voice services.
  * Consider that since you have data you may be able to use signal, etc.
  * Check if they will allow 112 calls.
* If you're already using an esim, you need to check what your device supports in terms of the total number of eSims you can have installed, active and usable.
* *Most* devices can have multiple eSims **stored** but the number may be different per device.
* *Most* devices can have 2 sims **active**
* Only some newer devices can have **2 eSims** that are both **active**.
* *Most* devices can only **use** one sim at a time. See below for DSDS vs DSDA

### 2 eSims active

> [!NOTE] Active vs Using
> I am using the word *Active* specifically. This section is about having 2 eSim's *active* at the same time but not *using* 2 eSim's at the same time. There is a difference between *active* and *using* and *simultaneously using*

Having no physical sim and 2 eSims *active* is only available on some devices. (This list is not complete nor up to date)

* iPhone 13 or later[^1]
* iPhones without a physical tray[^1]
* Pixel??? - TBC

[^1]: <https://support.apple.com/en-au/109317#:~:text=iPhone%2013%20models%20and%20later%20also%20support%20two%20active%20eSIMs.%20iPhone%20models%20without%20a%20physical%20SIM%20tray%20support%20two%20active%20eSIMs.>

### Providers

These are some eSim providers I am aware of **that at least seem legit**

> [!IMPORTANT] Not Recommendations
> The below list is not complete, full or any kind of recommendation or endorsement. In most cases I haven't even used them. This list was last updated 1/07/2025.
<!-- cSpell:ignore tripsim -->
* [Sally (NordVPN)](https://saily.com/) - also has an app - but only does data, no voice.
* [tripsim by Syd](https://tripsim.com.au/) - related to sydney airport corporation - but only does data, no voice. No app, uses a website
* [Airalo Global eSIMs](https://www.airalo.com/global-esim) - they do data and voice on their global esims only (you need to select the toggle from data to data/voice/text). Has an app. Supports $AUD.
* [WorldSIM International eSIM Pro](https://www.worldsim.com/international-esim-card) - must be the 'International eSIM Pro' plans/sims as they are the only ones with voice.
<!-- cSpell:ignore DSDA DSDS -->

## Using vs Simultaneously Using (aka DSDA vs DSDS)

> [!NOTE] Any type of sim
> This section talks about sims referring to both physical sims and eSims

DSDS: Dual Sim Dual Standby: Device supports 2 sims and both are active and registered with the mobile network but only **one** can be used at a time. You can't call off one sim and sms off another at the same time. More commonly, you can't use data off one sim and make calls off the sim at the same time. Most devices support DSDS.

DSDA: Dual Sim Dual Active: Both sims can be used simultaneously. Data off of one, calling off of another? Yes. Dual data connections? Technically use but I wouldn't *automatically* expect your <ins>bandwidth</ins> to double and I doubt your phone will be able start <ins>bonding</ins> the two links together. Your milage may vary.

[More Info](https://www.qualcomm.com/news/onq/2023/05/unleashing-full-potential-for-simultaneous-5g-cellular-connections-qualcomm-dsda-gen-2-with-dual-data#:~:text=The%20evolution%20of%205G%20DSDA%C2%A0)

## Data Saving Tips

### Android Users

* Turn on Data saver (Basic)
* Turn off Sync (Intermediate)
* Turn off data roaming (you can do this per sim if using dual sim)

### Apple Users

* Turn off data roaming (you can do this per sim if using dual sim)
* Turn off background sync

### Apps allowed to use Cellular data

* Some apps may be enabled to use cellular data instead of just wifi.
* **You should reconsider this when roaming since your data limits/allowances may be different**. Eg:
  * Perhaps you don't need to stream spotify, you can just use what is offline.
  * Perhaps Netflix doesn't need to download and/or stream over Cellular.
* Apple: [Use mobile/cellular data on your iPhone or iPad](https://support.apple.com/en-us/109323) - under *View how much data you're using* you can disable apps from using cellular data.
* Android: [Reduce & manage mobile data usage](https://support.google.com/fi/answer/9458407?hl=en#:~:text=Check%20your%20mobile%20data%20usage)

### Prepare beforehand

In addition to removing cellular data access for apps, you can also tell a lot of them to download things before you go offline. eg:

* You can tell spotify to download some playlists.
* You can get Netflix to download a show and its espoides (watch out for smart downloads if you have haven't followed the instructions in [Apps allowed to use Cellular data](#Apps allowed to use Cellular data))
* You can tell Google maps the area you would like to have offline maps for an area you are navigating too
* Review / consider the settings for Google Phones or iCloud Photos.

> [!IMPORTANT] Backups
> I'm not saying you should disable backups on device, but you should consider what would be the most important data for you to backup while away. In most cases the photos are often the most important thing people want to backup while away but it may be better to leave the backup enabled, don't have backups over cellular then make sure you can connect to a Wi-Fi network and then run the backup there. Or consider getting a seperate sim.
> **Consider what task you do where!**
